trying to get it
thank you very much I think there's
gonna be a very important conference and
I'll get to that toward the middle but I
have a few things to report and want to
thank you all for being here and I have
to say I think with social distancing
that the media has been much nicer I
don't know what it is all these empty
fees in-between chairs we probably
shouldn't have anybody sitting behind
you either you know I should probably go
back but I love it it's so much nicer
but I shouldn't say that because you'll
get me now thank you all for being here
and we continue our relentless effort to
defeat the Chinese virus before I begin
I want to start by announcing that today
we are bringing home another American
citizen it was a big thing very big Omar
hey Cory is on his way back to the
United States after being imprisoned in
Lebanon since September of 2019 he's
battling late-stage cancer mr. Hikari
will now be able to receive the much
needed care and treatment in the United
States we've been working very hard to
get him freed then he's finally able to
have his entire family at his side so
I'm very grateful to the Lebanese
government they worked with us and we
are very proud of his family they stood
by him so strongly and they are thrilled
the United States has no higher priority
than the safety and well-being of our
citizens we've gotten a tremendous
number of hostages out as you know I
think we're 42 and oh and Robert O'Brien
as you know was or chief negotiator for
a large part of it in fact did so well
that now we have him in a different
position so I want to thank and
congratulate Robert and his team and I
want to let everyone know that
recovering Americans held captive and
prisoned abroad continues to be a top
priority for my administration we have
one young gentleman Austin Tice and
we're working very hard with Syria to
get him out we hope the Syrian
government will do that counting on them
to do that we've written a letter just
recently but he's been there for a long
time and was captured long ago Austin
Tice his mother's probably watching and
she's a great lady
and we're doing the best we can so Syria
please work with us and we would
appreciate your letting them out of you
think about what we've done we've gotten
rid of the Isis Caliphate in Syria we've
done a lot for Syria we have to see if
they're going to do this so it would be
very much appreciated if they would let
Austin Tice out immediately as you know
my administration is working every day
to protect American people and the
American economy from the virus
yesterday I signed into law a critical
support for American workers families
and small businesses a big thing we're
providing sick leave and family medical
leave to those affected by the virus and
more health is on the way as we speak
our entire team headed by secretary
minuchin is on the hill we're working
with Democrats and Republicans and
there's a lot of goodwill going on this
was something that happened that was
some people would say an act of God I
don't view it as an act of God I would
view it as something that just surprised
the whole world and if people would have
known about it it could have stopped
been stopped in place it could have been
stopped right where it came from China
if we would have known about it if they
would have known about it but now the
whole world almost is inflicted with
this
horrible with this horrible virus and
it's too bad it's too bad because we
never had an economy as good as the
economy we had just a few weeks ago but
we'll be back and I actually think we'll
be back stronger than ever before
because we learned a lot during this
period of time I also just invoked the
defense production act to help
facilitate distribution of essential
supplies if necessary we're working with
Congress to provide major additional
relief to the workers small businesses
and the hardest hit industries we want
to make sure that everybody is able to
continue on so that when we recover all
of these companies and these great
businesses both very very small and very
very large they're not gonna be broken
up and you'd have to put them back
together that would take a long time
because we really believe in I believe
in the V curve I believe it's gonna go
when this is when this is defeated this
hidden scourge is defeated I think we're
gonna go up very rapidly our economy and
get back to where it was and beyond
today I want to share with you exciting
progress that the FDA is making with the
private sector as we slash red tape like
nobody has ever done it before somebody
was on yesterday or one of the networks
and said that there's never been a
president even close that's been able to
do what I've done in slashing all of the
red tape and everything to get very
important things to the market medical
so we slash red tape to develop vaccines
and therapies as fast as it can possibly
be done long before anybody else was
even thinking about doing this and as
you know earlier this week we began the
first clinical trial of a vaccine
candidate for the virus and that was
launched in record time it was just a
few weeks and that would have taken
years to do not so long ago as we race
to develop a vaccine we're also pursuing
antiviral therapies and that's what
really we're going to be talking to you
about today that's the purpose of being
up here today
and to me that's even more important
than you vaccine by its nature you have
to have long tests because you have to
make sure what goes into somebody's body
is not going to do destruction do bad
things so you need long tests and
they're doing great with the vaccines
but it's still a long process but the
therapies are something we can move on
much faster potentially and the
treatments that we'll be able to reduce
the severity or duration of the symptoms
to make people better essentially with
looking at things to make people better
or at the very earliest stages they
wouldn't even know they had it and
that's where I believe it's going to
work even the best the FDA Commissioner
Steven on who's with us he's fantastic
and he has been working 24 hours a day
he's been worked like probably as hard
or harder than anybody in this in the
group other than maybe Mike Pence or me
and what the FDA is doing is incredible
they've done things in times that were
not even thinkable and I've directed the
FDA to eliminate outdated rules and
bureaucracy so this work can proceed
rapidly quickly and I mean vast and we
have to remove every barrier there were
a lot of barriers that were unnecessary
and they've done that to get the rapid
deployment of safe effective treatments
and we think we have some good answers
we'll find out very very soon clinical
trials are already underway for many new
therapies and we're working on scaling
these to allow many more Americans to
access different drugs that have shown
really good promise we vet on really
good promise we will do so in a way that
lets us
continue to collect good data to know
which medicines are safe and which
medicines are working the best we have a
couple that where we're in really good
shape on and that's for immediate
delivery immediate like as fast as we
can get it
the FDA has also approved compassionate
use for a significant number of patients
you know what that means we're also
reviewing drugs that are approved abroad
or drugs approved here for other uses
and you know one of the things that I'm
most proud of that I got was right to
try that's where somebody who's ill
somebody who's very sick terminally ill
usually in past administrations we
signed this a year and a half ago you
wouldn't be able to even think about
getting any of the drugs that may be
showing great promise now and they've
been trying for many decades to get this
approved and it sounds simple but it's
not because there's liability involved
and lots of other things and I was able
to get it approved working with Congress
right to try this is beyond right to try
what we're talking about today is beyond
right to try right to try a spin by the
way tremendous success people are living
now that had no chance of living where
we take treatments that would things
that that would have to go through years
of a process and if somebody was
terminally ill and I would say why
wouldn't they be able to try this they'd
go to Asia they go to Europe they go all
over the world to try and find something
or some people have they had no money we
go home today they go home today they
had no hope right to try has been an
incredible success but this is beyond
right to try if treatment is known to be
safe in Europe Japan or other nations
are effective against a virus we'll use
that information to protect the health
and safety of American people nothing
will stand in our way as we pursue any
avenue to find what best works against
this horrible virus now a drug called
chloroquine
and some people would add to it hydroxy
hydroxychloroquine mr. chloroquine or
hydroxychloroquine now this is a common
malaria drug it's also a drug used for
strong rightist somebody has pretty
serious arthritis also uses this in a
somewhat different form but it is known
as a malaria drug and it's been around
for a long time and it's very powerful
but the nice part is it's been around
for a long time
so we know that if it if if things don't
go as planned it's not going to kill
anybody when you go with a brand new
drug you don't know that that's gonna
happen you have to see and you have to
go long tests but this has been used in
different forms very powerful drug in
different forms and it's shown very
encouraging very very encouraging early
results and we're going to be able to
make that drug available almost
immediately and that's where the FD has
been so great they they've gone through
the approval process it's been approved
and they did it they took it down from
many many months to immediate so we're
gonna be able to make that drug
available by prescription or States I
spoke with Governor Cuomo about it at
great length last night and he wants to
be right on on the he wants to be first
on the line and so I think that's a
tremendous as tremendous promise based
on the results and other tests this
tremendous promise and normally the FDA
would take a long time to approve
something like that and it's it was
approved very very quickly and it's now
approved by prescription individual
states we'll handle it
they can handle it doctors will handle
it and I think it's gonna be I think
it's gonna be great
then we're quickly studying this drug
and while we're continuing to study it
but the studying is going to be also
done in as it's given out to large
groups of people perhaps in New York and
other places will study it there there
are promising therapies produced by
Gilead and that's where MD sir
voir room Desa var and that's a drug
used for other purposes that's been out
and said very good results for other
purposes but it seems to have a very
good result having to do with this virus
and that drug also has been approved or
very close to approved in that case by
the FDA and I can't tell you how much we
appreciate what the FDA these people are
incredible Patriots and the job that
Stephen Han is doing dr. Han was one of
the most respected doctors in the
country by the way well we took him I
said you sure you want to do this
now we didn't know that this was going
to be in the playlist what happened here
but he really has stepped up to the
plate
wherever you are words shake his head
but I'm not supposed to do that getting
a lot of trouble if I did but he's been
fantastic and I thank you doctor he's
gonna speak right after I'm finished so
Regeneron again and some is a company
that's done fantastically well as I
understand with Ebola and some other
things great company and they're looking
at some very promising events also so
you have rim desks of voir and you have
cleric wind and I drove
hydroxychloroquine so those are two that
are out now essentially approved for
prescribed use and I think it's gonna be
very exciting I think it could be a
game-changer and maybe not and maybe not
but I think it could be based on what I
see it could be a game-changer very
powerful they're very powerful so I want
every American to know that we're doing
everything we can and these actions are
important next steps I mean for the FDA
to act the way they acted with this kind
of speed is an incredible thing normally
they'd say well we could have it by next
year or we could have it by in two years
from now you understand this is the way
normally it's like years and years and
years they had it immediately based on
the fact that it's been used for other
things totally unrelated things we
believe these therapeutics and others
under evaluation right now will be able
to provide relief to many Americans we
really hope that's going to be this
could be a tremendous breakthrough
tremendous breakthrough and we will work
toward a much needed vaccine in the
future as I said and what we're doing
with the FDA is so exciting in so many
other fields so many things are
happening it's a very exciting time for
for medicine and we appreciate that the
American public has pulled together
they're really staying home and I think
there's tremendous spirit in this
country right now it's spirit like a lot
of people have not seen people have not
seen anything like it for a long time
and that means democrat-republican
they're pulling together I hope
everything's going good in the hill
maybe I shouldn't say this until I check
out what's going on because you never
know but but I think there's a great
spirit where the Democrats the
Republicans and everybody else they're
getting together and they're trying to
get things done but most importantly the
American public has been incredible we
took the best economy we've ever had and
we said stop you can't work you have to
stay home you know there's never been a
case like this normally you pay a lot of
money to get things going
here's a case we were paying a lot of
money to stop things because we don't
want people to be together so that this
virus doesn't continue onward so there's
never been anything like this in history
there's never been a nobody's ever seen
anything like this but we're doing the
right thing we have to get rid of in our
big war is not a it's not a financial
war it's a war and it's a medical war we
have to win this war it's very important
with that I'd like to just introduce dr.
Stephen Hahn and he again I'd like to
send back with Stephen our thanks to all
of the people working in the FDA who are
fantastic talented people we appreciate
it very much everything you've done
especially the speed that you got these
two elements these two very important
drugs passed thank you very much thank
you mr. president I want to thank you
for your leadership during this corona
virus outbreak and thank you for the
kind words about the FDA staff we have
10,000 scientists doctors and others and
more than that working around the clock
to aid the American people in this fight
against the corona virus and those words
are very much appreciated sir thank you
so before the president nominated me and
I was confirmed as commissioner from
drugs that was a cancer doctor and I've
sat across from countless number of
patients and had to talk to them about
their diagnosis and their treatment and
one thing that was really important is
to provide hope I have great hope for
how we're going to come out of this
situation what's also important is not
to provide false hope but to provide
hope and as a doctor that's the way I
come to this I'm speaking now to the
American people as Commissioner of food
and drugs but that part of me has not
left just look at the way the American
people have responded to our calls for
mitigation for social distancing
American people have great resiliency
and I'm so incredibly proud of how the
American people have responded as the
president mentioned he asked us to be
aggressive to break down barriers to
innovation and to accelerate the
development of life-saving treatments
and we're doing that at the FDA
the FDA is committed to continuing to
provide regulatory flexibility and
guidance but let me make one thing clear
FDA's responsibility to the American
people is to ensure that products are
safe and effective and yet we are
continuing to do that our folks and
their tremendous professionals are
working day and night to do this you
just can't even imagine how much they're
working to provide the support for the
American people and I thank them since
early January long before the first
domestic case FDA began working in
collaboration with CDC I also want to
note that we stood up an incident
command group and have been focused on
the corona virus since the very
beginning of this public health
emergency this is in addition and all of
government and all America approach and
I'll describe what I mean by that in
terms of the development of therapeutics
an important part of that work is
expanding the potential therapeutic
options associated with coronavirus and
we've learned from our colleagues across
the globe about this but I I want to
focus on one thing I was a cancer
researcher before all this and one thing
I know about this great country of ours
is that we have unbelievable innovators
we have people who every day it's their
job to develop treatments for all sorts
of diseases we are incredibly blessed as
a country to have this and as is true in
any illness these great American
innovators academia private sector they
have engaged us about the best possible
treatment options we are looking at
everything that's coming across our
desks as possible treatment options for
coronavirus and we're extremely
encouraged by the interest and the
promise that we've seen from these great
American innovators now again we need to
look at it we need the data we need the
information to make the absolute best
decisions for American people but I want
to assure you we have over 17,000 people
at FDA who are doing this every day we
need we need to make sure that these the
see of new treatments will get the right
drug to the right patient at the right
dosage at the right time as an example
we may have the right drug but it may
not be in the appropriate dosage form
right now
and that may do more harm than good
those are the things that that's our job
to look at and that's why it's really
important we have these dedicated
professionals looking at these aspects
of therapeutic development at the same
time we're also working through
different mechanisms to actually get
drugs into the hands of providers and
patients the president mentioned this
but one of the mechanisms called
compassionate use let me just tell you
about this if there's an experimental
drug that's potentially available a
doctor could ask for that drug to be
used in a patient we have criteria for
that and very speedy approval for that
the important thing about compassionate
use and that's what the president meant
this is even beyond right to try is that
we get to collect the information about
that because one of the things there's
no promise the American people is we
will collect the data and then make the
absolute right decisions based upon
those data about the safety and efficacy
of the treatments we are working
expeditiously and we are working to make
sure that these products are as safe and
effective as they possibly can be can be
let me tell you about a few things that
we're currently working on and this is a
plan that was developed with many of the
people at this table are infectious
disease experts on the task force in the
short term we're looking at drugs that
are already approved for other
indications so they're already approved
as the president said for other diseases
as an example many Americans have read
studies and heard media reports about
this drug chloroquine which is an
anti-malarial drug it's already approved
as the president said for the treatment
of malaria as well as in arthritis
condition that's a drug that the
president has directed us to take a
closer look at as to whether an expanded
use approach to that could be done to
actually see if that benefits patients
and again we want to do that in the
setting of a clinical trial a large
pragmatic clinical trial to actually
gather that information and answer the
question that needs to be answered and
asked and answered let me give you
another example
there's a cross-agency effort about
something called convalescent plasma
this is a pretty exciting area and again
this is something that we have given
assistance to other countries with as
this crisis has developed so FDA has
been working for some time on this
if you've been exposed to coronavirus
and you're better you don't have the
virus in your blood we could collect the
blood now this is a possible treatment
this is not a proven treatment just want
to emphasize that collect the blood
concentrate that and have the ability
once it's pathogen-free that is virus
free be able to give that to other
patients and the immunoglobulins the
immune response could potentially
provide a benefit to patients it's
another thing that we're looking at over
the next couple weeks we'll have more
information that we're really pushing
hard to try to accelerate that that's in
the sort of more medium short term and
that'll be a bridge to other therapies
that will take us three to six months to
develop and this is a continuous process
there is no beginning and end to each of
this this is you know we're pushing this
through the other great thing about the
great innovators of America some of them
tell us it's taken us years years to
develop therapies they're looking at
pushing that to the months period of
time and we're trying to provide them
the regulatory flexibility but at the
same time the scientific oversight to
make sure that gets done in the best way
possible for the American people the
president mentioned that there is a
vaccine trial currently being performed
it's a phase one trial so it's the
earliest study that gets done we expect
that to take 12 months to get depletion
to actually a time where we could
approve a vaccine but that's these are
all things to bridge to the prevention
part of this with a vaccine it's
exciting work and the president is right
this is record time for the development
of a vaccine and impressive
public-private partnership the FDA's
efforts to facilitate the development of
these products are focused on ensuring
timely access while also meeting the
agency's world respected gold standard
relying on strong data from clinical
trials to determine if an experimental
or an off-the-shelf drug that's used for
something else can safely and
effectively treat patients we want to
assure the American people that FDA is
all hands on deck as the president
mentioned these efforts and continue to
work with interested sponsors to help
expedite the work we remain steadfast in
helping to foster the development of
safe and effective therapies for koba 19
Thank You mr. president
the White House coronavirus task force
met this morning and on this very first
day of springg
we continue to make steady progress
toward president Trump's objective not
only to marshal all the resources of the
federal government every state
government every every local health
official but also to harness the power
of American private sector and
activities over the last day reflect all
of those priorities
yesterday the president spoke with
America's top physicians and nurses and
garnered helpful insights about how we
can best serve those who are serving
Americans that are dealing with the
coronavirus we also had a productive
call with over 5,000 state and local
officials explaining the federal
government's approach and our strong and
seamless partnership with all 50 states
in the territories last night as you
heard the president side the family
first coronavirus response act which
provides free coronavirus testing paid
sick leave family leave for caregivers
and food assistance for the needy among
a broad range of benefits and today as
the president indicated we expect that
the Senate will begin work on an
economic relief package later today the
president and I will meet again in a
teleconference with the nation's
governors we will meet at the National
Response Coordination Center at FEMA and
outline president Trump's decision to
have FEMA take the lead in our national
coronavirus response our nation's
response through FEMA will be locally
executed state managed and federally
supported on testing we want the
American people to know once again the
testing is available in all 50 states as
is becoming increasingly available
literally every hour of the day because
of the public-private partnership that
the president initiated several weeks
ago with major commercial labs I'm
pleased to receive a report today that
tens of thousands of tests are being
performed every day and with the passage
of last night's legislation
estate and private labs are now required
by law to report all coronavirus testing
directly to the CDC which will give the
American public and also give our
researchers timely and important
information it's important for every
American to remember that if you don't
have symptoms you don't need to get a
test we want to make sure the testing is
available for people that are
experiencing symptoms or have a genuine
concern about having been exposed to
someone with the coronavirus dr. Burks
will address county level data as well
as the progress we've made on testing
and Americans can expect to see how an
increased number of cases as our new
testing system comes online should not
be a cause of concern I shall explain
the importance of taking into account
our new testing system as new data
arrives over the next several days on
supplies a priority the president has
given to our task force we continue to
work with healthcare providers
businesses and state leadership to
identify available supplies not merely
in the federal stockpile but much more
importantly available across the private
sector we're encouraged to see companies
like Honeywell and 3m that I visited a
few short weeks ago take advantage of
the changes in the law last night that
allow the sale of industrial masks
directly to hospitals those companies
have now greatly increased by the tens
of millions their production of
so-called n95 masks that will give our
health care workers the protection that
they need to minister to those that are
dealing with the symptoms or the disease
of coronavirus I'm following the signing
of last night's bill all of those masks
now have liability protection and the
companies can sell industrial masks to
hospitals it is encouraging as we called
out yesterday to see construction
companies all across America that are as
we speak
checking their supplies and donating
those industrial masks to their local
hospitals and I know I speak on behalf
of the president who spent a lot of time
as a builder when we thank builders
across America for partnering with
local healthcare officials on the
subject of ventilators we're working
with health care providers around
America and and suppliers and I'm we're
encouraged to learn that we've literally
identified tens of thousands of
ventilators that Bing can be converted
to treat patients and we remain
increasingly confident that we will have
the ventilators that we need as the
coronavirus makes its way across America
and as we said before this we're all in
this together and before I step away and
and give the podium back to the
President and to dr. Burks I want to
call every American's attention again to
the president's 15 days to slow the
spread you continue to hear one case
after another one city after another
where people are putting into practice
the principles that the president
outlined this Monday and make no mistake
about it that while for the American
people as a whole the risk of serious
illness remains low these guidelines
should be practiced by every American in
every community not only to lessen the
spread of the corona virus but to
protect the most vulnerable among us and
I think Americans with their with from
their hearts are not only practicing
these principles of social distancing
and avoiding social gatherings of more
than 10 people using drive throughs at
restaurants to protect their own health
and the health of their family but
they're also recognizing that that no
American wants to inadvertently convey
the coronavirus to someone for whom the
consequences could be quite serious at
the president's Direction will continue
to marshal all the resources of
government at every level
we'll be reiterating that strong
partnership with America States this
afternoon with America's governor's
pulling all of the private sector energy
together the innovation that you just
heard described I know on this first day
of spring that we'll get through this
and we'll get through this together
thank you mister thank you very much
thank you Thank You mr. president so I
know you're watching the data carefully
you can see the dramatic increases in
the number of new cases based on our
ability to test additional people and
this will continue over the next two to
three days as we begin to have backlogs
reduced of the testing you all have
heard the antidotes of people waiting
five or six days for their test results
we are moving through all of that as
well as testing individuals I really
want to applaud the frontline healthcare
workers the nurses and the doctors and
the testers that have really prioritized
and the American people who have a
prioritized those with symptoms the
number of tests positives is increasing
that is a dramatically important
signature that everybody is doing their
job those with mild symptoms are staying
home self isolating those with serious
symptoms are coming forward to getting
testing our tests positive rates are now
into the 10 to 11 percent range that
still means that 90% of the illness is
out there even the severe ones are not
covet 19 I know many of you are looking
at the state level data still over 50%
of the cases come from three states this
is why we continue to prioritize testing
in those states in addition 50 percent
of the cases come from ten counties
we're a very large country with very
many counties and I just want to applaud
the local and state governments that are
implementing their emergency operation
centers and plans to ensure I want to
also really thank the health care
workers that have been asked to reduce
all elective surgeries medical and
dental visits this will dramatically
increase the number of ventilators that
are available in hospitals but also in
ambulatory surgical centers that can be
converted and utilized and also the to
the construction industry we are deeply
grateful the number as vice president
said the number of individuals have come
forward with their construction mask
their booties their Tyvek suits and
their masks to contribute them to the
healthcare sector
the President's request to make this
available in that legislation changes
the ability and increases our
availability immediately by than 75 to
90 percent range because the amount of
construction use of those elements thank
you Thank You mr. president mr. vice
president
uh-huh today you heard a wonderful
announcement from the FDA and I just
want to give a shout out to Steve dr.
Hahn and the folks at the FTA were about
what several hundred of my commissioned
Corps officers work you're right mr.
president
they are tireless they're doing things
that have never been done before to
bring the most most prudent advances to
the American people but I want to talk
about something different briefly we
know many of you are home practicing the
president's guidelines for social
distancing but one thing we should all
consider especially our Millennials in
Gen Z is donating blood as an
anesthesiologist who still practices at
Walter Reed taking care of our wounded
warriors and our soldiers I know
donated blood is an essential part of
caring for patients and one donation can
save up to three lives blood centers are
open now and in need of your donation I
want America to know that blood donation
is safe and blood centers are taking
extra precautions at this time based on
new CDC recommendations including
spacing beds 6 feet apart disinfecting
surfaces between patient's temperature
checking staff and encouraging donors to
make appointments ahead of time so we
can space them out social distancing
does not have to mean social
disengagement so give blood today you'll
feel good about it and you'll be helping
your country and your community during
this crisis and you might even save a
life
switching to the the Epis to boost the
economy with the measures for Congress
will you guarantee that the money the
billions the tens of billions of dollars
hundreds of billions of dollars even
that's gonna go but to these industries
will not go to executive bonuses or to
more stock buybacks well we don't want
that in fact some companies as you know
did stock buybacks and I was never happy
with that it's very hard to tell them
not to but I would tell them not to I
would say I don't like it for that
reason some data and it turned out that
they could have waited a long time it
would have been much better off if they
did condition of the bill you could say
none of this morning can go away I'm
making I've been you know take so many
many people in this case to tango but as
far as I'm concerned that conditions
like that would be okay with me you and
that a question for dr. klahn you
enabled I guess is probably the best way
to put it the defense production act
yesterday but you don't pull the trigger
on it no because we hope we're not going
to need from the Democratic leadership
pull the trigger on wait what's the
rationale for not doing first of all
governors are supposed to be doing a lot
of this work and they are doing a lot of
this work federal government's not
supposed to be out there buying vast
amounts of items and then shipping you
know we're not a shipping clerk the
governors are supposed to be as with
testing the governor's oppose are
supposed to be doing it will help out
and will help out wherever we can and we
can buy in volume and in some cases
great volume with the masks as an
example which were really a problem we
have helped out and they're right now
millions of masks being made but this is
really for the local governments
governors and people within the state
depending on the way they divided it up
and they'll do that and they're doing a
very good job of it where you have a
problem with ventilators we're working
very hard trying to find nobody in their
wildest dreams would have ever thought
that we need tens of thousands of
ventilators this is something that's
very unique to this to what happened
conditions would you put
defense production act into action well
if we were desperately in need of
something and we frankly will know about
that very shortly we want to be ahead of
we don't want to do it as it happens but
before it happens
we're gonna know a lot over the next two
or three days we know a lot any idea
when REM disappear will be available to
the market and are there any drugs in
the pipeline that you believe could
qualify for a treatment I have data so
with respect to the first question I'm
on prohibited by law to disclose
confidential commercial information what
I can tell you is we're working very
closely with the company on this and
we'll have additional information they
will relatively soon yes there are drugs
in the pipeline we're looking at
everyone everyone on this dais gets
calls every day as to all of our people
at the FDA about potential therapeutic
options we are looking at every single
one of them no I'm not but we're trying
to find that out this has been going on
for years many years they've been trying
to find Austin Tice he was in Syria as
you know his mother is an incredible
woman and I'm doing it for him but I'm
doing it for his mother his mother's an
incredible woman who's desperate to find
her son and I'm not confirming a lot but
if he is alive if we would like very
much to get him back quickly okay and on
Crona virus
speaking of shortages of supplies the
CDC has put out guidelines for hospitals
that are dealing with a shortage of mass
to use them beyond their shelf life we
use them instead of getting new ones and
in a worst-case scenario use a bandana
instead of a mask how is that acceptable
at all well I haven't seen that but I
will let Mike answer that question by
suppressing I'm happy to mr. president I
just I can't emphasize enough the
incredible progress that was made with
the passage of the legislation last
night the president had me go to
Minnesota meet with 3m that manufactures
these in 95 mass a few weeks ago and we
learned of their production at that
of 35 million Mass a month less than
five million of those were qualified to
be sold to hospitals so President worked
with Republican and Democrat leadership
we've extended the liability protection
so now that all the industrial masks
that are manufactured as n95 s are now
available to hospitals and we're seeing
a dramatic increase in production
Honeywell alone is repurposing a factory
that was destined for Mexico to produce
another 120 million mass per year 3m is
increasing output to 420 million masks
per year we really we've put a priority
at the president's direction on making
sure those that are providing health
care services to America have the
protection to keep themselves and their
families safe and with the legislation
last night with the incredible response
among these great private-sector
companies and as we mentioned repeatedly
with construction companies around
America heating the president's call to
donate their industrial mass to
hospitals is happening all over America
we know we'll meet that need well as I
mentioned 3m is increasing their output
420 million a year at production and
January they make 35 million per month
at that facility and we're we're
prioritizing the distribution of those
but the other thing and we'll emphasize
this with governor's this afternoon is
we're working with governor's to make
sure that the health care providers the
hospitals and the clinics in their state
are placing orders now that this
tremendous increase in supply
particularly with industrial mass is now
available we're going to make sure they
understand that the supply has greatly
expanded thanks to a bipartisan
legislation and the accomplishment the
president and the response by these
companies is making more mass available
and we're going to make sure health care
providers are purchasing those and the
federal government will also make sure
that our stockpile is properly reflects
those increases as well
they're available now the 3m facility
that I was at told me in that in January
they went to full production on 35
million masks the legislative change
means that all 35 million of those that
started to be produced at full capacity
in January can now be sold to hospitals
that's the distinction here it's a very
important change and it's part of the
way the president has been engaging the
private sector pushing the kind of
regulatory reform and the kind of
liability reform that has greatly
expanded the availability of mass so
they're in the marketplace now we're
gonna make it clear to governor's as we
made it clear to health care providers
and conference calls yesterday
that those resources are now there we've
vastly increased the supply of medical
mass and we're going to continue to put
a priority on making sure that we're
calling on industry at every level
calling on major suppliers at the
president met with this week to make
sure that those personal protective
equipment are there the company had a
big problem with liability and much of
it had to do with the liability to the
company on the American Hospital
Association just told NBC News that they
need a hundred billion dollars in order
to adjust shortages in equipment and
other infrastructure there you just
signed two legislative packages they say
it didn't directly give money to address
this issue why not and will you commit
to me looking at that issue directly
with them and that's a separate issue
but we're looking at that issue very
directly we're working with Democrats
and Republicans or that we're looking at
that very specifically you bottom-line
people when can Americans expect their
lives to go back to normal
will that not happen until there's a
vaccine I hope person we'll see this is
uncharted territory as you know
we think we have ideas it doesn't help
to say what the ideas I would hope very
soon we're we've pulled together as a
nation people are for the most part
doing what they're supposed to be doing
the social distancing is very
interesting a whole new term that's
become a hot it's become somewhat of a
hot term but people are listening and
they're and they're really doing a great
job this country is an amazing country I
think you're up to 141 different
countries right now so it's very
uncharted territory could have could
have been stopped could have been
stopped pretty easily if we had known if
everybody had known about it
a number of months before people started
reading about it excuse me before we
started reading about we could have it
could have been stopped in its tracks
unfortunately they didn't decide to make
it public but the whole world is
suffering because of it the only thing
we weren't prepared for was the the
media the media has not treated it
fairly I'll tell you how prepared I was
I called for a band from people coming
in from China long before anybody
thought it was in fact it was your
Network I believe they called me a
racist because I did that it was many of
the people in the room they called me
racist and other words because I did
that because I went so early so when you
say we weren't prepared had I let these
tens of thousands of people come in from
China a day we would have had something
right now that would have been you
wouldn't have even recognized it
compared to where we are how many people
have passed away how many people have
died as of this moment you could
multiply that by a factor of many many
many so when you say that I wasn't
prepared I was the first one to do the
band now other countries are following
what I did but the media doesn't
acknowledge that they know it's true
they know it's true but they don't want
to write about it yeah
I wanted to expel up on Johnny Kaitlyn's
question so it's not just maths doctors
are saying now that they are desperate
for other personal protective gear
gloves other equipment governors are
saying if they don't have access to
respirators and they're terrified
what is your reticence about revenues
we're supposed to get it the states is
supposed to get it but we're helping the
states look for years they bought them
and now all of a sudden they're coming
to the federal government we're working
with the states we're working with the
governors we're working with everybody
the relationships are great one of the
things that happened this morning I
spoke with Micky Arison of Carnival
Cruise Lines and he's going to make
ships available so in addition to the
big medical ships that you have coming
if we should need ships with lots of
rooms
they'll be docked at New York and Los
Angeles and San Francisco different
places so I want to thank Micky Arison
that's Carnival Cruise Lines if we find
that we need something that we will do
that and you don't know what we've done
you don't know whether or not we've
ordered you don't know if we've invoked
it you don't know what's been ordered
what's not going on I can only tell you
I can only tell you that as an example
masks nobody ever heard of the number of
mass that's been ordered they're being
made now and many are available now but
people I think in the media probably
don't know that could you explain the
gap and for the American people and what
you're saying here today about there
being tens of thousands of tests
available about how they're being a huge
amount of masks available and what we're
seeing on the ground which is really the
opposite of that people are people are
saying that they can't get tested even
when they have symptoms people are
saying that they doctors are telling us
they don't have access to vital
equipment can you explain that gap well
I can't I cannot explain a gap I'm
hearing very good things on the ground
and we're dealing with love they had a
ramp up they had an obsolete system and
they had a system simultaneously that
was not meant for this it wasn't meant
for this nobody knew there'd be a
pandemic or an epidemic of this
proportion nobody's ever seen anything
like this
for I can tell you that what we're doing
is we're working with local governments
with States governor's even mayors on
getting them to be able to get what they
need and the system is starting to work
out very well but we had a breaker
system like breaking an egg because the
system we had was obsolete and didn't
work and that was a system we inherited
and now we have something that's really
been very good and certainly going to be
great for the future well we don't want
to pick winners and losers we want
everybody to benefit we want I think
more than anything else the workers to
benefit and sometimes for the worker to
benefit you have to go through the
company because they have thousands of
workers and if the company goes out of
business no fault of their own those
workers aren't going to be able to
receive a check so we're look our
ultimate goal or the people our ultimate
goal of the great people of this country
and we will have things worked out I
think that are going to be very well
it's a very complex formula you
understand that it's very complex but
it's working out I think it's going to
be very well I think we're gonna have
pretty uniform support for it please put
out an advisory telling Americans not to
travel overseas at all are you putting
in an overseas travel we're speaking
with the State Department later I can't
say right now because I haven't had the
meeting yet I wanted a Spectre hon about
today's announcement fuckers
thank you so much I wanted to ask out
rent rent severe if I pronounced that
correctly
can you tell say is it currently
approved for use on the virus so REM des
aveer and it's a drug made by Gilead
that's been in the press it is currently
in clinical trials here and around the
world we have also made it available by
that approach that I told you called
compassionate use where a doctor could
ask the FDA for that and the really
positive thing about that that gives it
rapidly to a doctor and a patient but it
allows us to collect the data because
what we really need to do is understand
what the data and science are in order
to make the appropriate decision about
safety and effectiveness so how do you
just make sure that it is safe and I
mean is there any concern at all that it
will be safe considering that it's not
going through the normal process and and
could potentially cause negative effects
doctor foul Qi earlier talked about we
do not want to put out anything that
could cause a negative effects is there
any concern about those kind of things
with this drugs yeah thank you for that
question because I just want to be clear
about this Ramdev severe is going
through the normal process we are using
our internal processes at fda to set up
with the company the protocols to
actually collect the data and you're
right we need to actually know about the
safety and the effectiveness and that's
done through the clinical trial process
so it's those data that are going to
inform the decisions that are ultimately
made about safety and affect see this is
an unprecedented situation this is a
really significant time and one thing
that with the president's leadership FDA
has done is say okay how do we approach
these extraordinary times with
extraordinary measures knowing that we
have a sacred trust with the American
people about safety and efficacy but
still at the same time enable these
treatments to get into patients and
that's what we're doing
the doctors how likely is it that the 15
day guidance that you would have
extended I can only tell you have the
40th day and will have to say well we'll
have indications later on dr. Burks
indicated that there are three states
and ten counties if I got that right
where 50% of the cases are focused
should those areas be doing more
measures such as shelter-in-place
I think they actually are doing a lot I
mean they I know New York is working
very diligently been very strong I
assume San Francisco's one of the areas
in Los Angeles and the state of
Washington obviously that's one that has
to be up there they're all working very
hard to to quarantine or words just
about the equivalent of quarantine
plants or more government workers moving
for the government as well to start
doing more teleworking we are and we're
doing we're using the medical term of
telemedicine and it's been incredibly
busy and really you know what people
don't have to ever eat some people can't
do it anyway they can't get up they
can't see a doctor but we're using this
and it's been telehealth different names
and I will tell you that it's been
really successful it's helped a lot of
people out where they don't have to and
they can't and even from a safety reason
if they are positive they are if they
are feeling poorly they can't do it or
we don't want them transmitting anything
to anybody else on China they reported
for the first time since the outbreak no
new cases over a 24-hour period do you
have any reason to disbelieve them and
second to that the National Security
Council yesterday put out a tweet very
critical of the Chinese government
saying the Chinese Communist Party
suppressed initial reports and the
Chinese virus and punished doctors and
journalists causing Chinese and
international experts to miss critical
opportunities to prevent a quote
could you expel it would have much
better if we had known about this a
number of months earlier it could have
been contained to that one area in China
where it started and certainly the world
is paying a big price for what they did
and the world is paying a very big price
but not for not letting them come out
everybody knows that we all know that as
far as as far as believing what they're
putting out now I hope it's true who
knows but I hope it's true about China
quite a bit about the Chinese virus how
if you have heard about this some day
one and had more information possibly
you could have stopped a big difference
are you thinking about any types of
repercussions for China and are you also
rethinking sort of the supply lines for
our manufacture engine I don't want to
comment on that right now yeah I have a
question for you and also a question for
dr. Burks at you American workers across
the country are losing their jobs an
unprecedented rate and you're a former
economist said we could see some of the
worst job numbers ever is the government
prepared to see this spike in
unemployment no worst case scenario you
would have terrible job numbers if we
can get this thing wrapped up and
finished earlier things will go very
nicely and one of the things they're
working as you know one of the elements
that is being worked on very much so in
the hill is to keep the jobs going so
that when we do get rid of the virus
we're gonna be able to just really I
think go like a rocket I think the
economy is gonna be fantastic
now when he said that he was using that
as the ultimate bad outcome I don't
think anybody believes that's gonna
happen
you know that members of Congress are
now positive for members of Congress are
not being tested positive for echovirus
and you have almost 2,000 or
self-quarantine do you have any guidance
for Congress should I know all of them
and I don't know if they're sitting like
you people are sitting you're actually
sitting too close
you should really we should probably get
rid of about another 75 80 percent of
you I'll have just two or three that I
like in this room I think that's a great
way of doing it we just begin a new way
of doing it but you're actually much too
close Yukie you should leave immediately
but but look look I know all of them
they tested positive hopefully they're
all going to get better and it's one of
those things it's Congress were they
tested positive they're in quarantine
and I know Lindsey and many others are
they they didn't test it but until they
got the result they put themselves in
quarantine
a number of people in Congress right now
are in quarantine they don't know the
results when they get the result they'll
leave this stay there and get better
because people get better I mean most
people are getting better most by far
the people are you get better doesn't
mean it's not a tough one it is a tough
one but now when they many people in
Congress have felt not perfect or they
met somebody that wasn't perfect it
turned out to be positive and they've
put themselves in quarantine and I think
I think Congress has behaved
unbelievably well in that regard do you
think a trillion-dollar stimulus is
enough well know about that later on
we'll see what happens it depends how
long so much depends on what's going on
in this room in terms of the medical if
we can stop it in its tracks the virus
it's plenty if we can't we'll have to go
back and talk do you support the idea of
the government taking in
a stake in certain companies I do people
are coming people are coming in for
money in some cases no fault of their
own but in some cases where they did
certain things over the course of the
years including by buying back stock you
know they bought back stock and they
paid a high price for it as it turned
out but maybe I view that as a little
bit differently than somebody that
didn't and somebody that bill plants all
over the United States of which there
were plenty of them two airlines are
Boeing or what what do you think we will
be helping the airline industry we will
be helping the cruise ship industry we
probably will be helping the hotel
industry will probably be where jobs are
created you don't want to lose
industries like this these are
incredible industries you can't lose
them so we'll be focused on many
industries and I have to say I can't
state it struggling enough we will be
helping small businesses that's where
it's complicated because a lot of small
you know that's the engine of the of the
country we will be helping small
business one trillion dollar stimulus
package for me economy do you expect
this to slow down the delivery of checks
for American families and are you
considering any no consecutive option
there could be we're looking at a couple
of things that I could do hopefully we
won't need it but we can do was there's
a lot of executive power if we don't
have to use it that would be a good
thing not a bad thing yeah please Thank
You mr. president
one for you and potentially as well one
for you dr. Berger dr. Adams right now
the economy is essentially ground to a
halt thanks for telling us the priest or
some clothes travel has slowed down
go ahead what's the rush deflation we
know that everybody in the room knows it
the question is how long should those
who are either not working right now or
business owners who have to make
critical decisions how long should they
expect the state of affairs
stands at this moment to play out and
for for the doctors behind you'll be
able to tell you that very I think in
the near future we'll see where we're
going you're gonna see numbers you've
seen the graphs you're gonna see numbers
and we'll be able to let you know I will
say that the American public has been
incredible for the most part not at all
cases but for the most part so you'll be
able to see what's happening over the
net as we say we had a 15-day period
you'll be able to tell a lot in a week
or so not everything but we'll be able
to see over a period of time and for all
the parents that are home right now this
is a question for dr. burns or dr. Adams
who are caring for their children and
are curious as to when my kids be able
to go back to school what do you think
is a realistic timeline well I think you
know most of all of those decisions are
made at the state and local government
level and each state and local
government has handled it differently
that's why we put out from the president
federal federal presidential guidance to
every single person about what we think
is important for the next two weeks and
as we look at that data we'll be able to
see if it's having an impact I think
you've all seen the modeling studies
those were driven by the modeling
studies showing that you add these
things together they have a bigger
impact than separately and so those are
part of the decision-making we had a
whole group of modelers in yesterday
they're compositing all the data
together to look at this carefully
because everyone has those same
questions of what the impact will be and
what pieces could essentially be removed
and you still have the same level of
impact in decreasing the spread of the
virus the absolute key to this though is
every single American looking at the
president guidelines and taking it
seriously
the acts of selflessness that I am
seeing are so impressive across the
board but if even 10 or 15 percent of
the population decides that what they're
doing today is more important than the
health and welfare of the rest of the
Americans they can spread the virus in a
very strong way because you know the
level of contagion
and I have to say if chloroquine or
hydroxychloroquine works or any of the
other things that they're looking at
they're not quite as far out but if they
work your numbers are going to come down
very rapidly so we'll see what happens
but there's a real chance that they
might was taking photos with supporters
in gorging mass demonstration and just
yesterday president from Brazil said and
we should not be surprised if we see him
in the next few days in a crowded subway
in Sao Paulo or in a bus in Rio because
he is the president it should view the
people what do you think about that
what's your message
well he's a friend of mine number one
and number two we had dinner the other
night and everybody said he was positive
and he wasn't positive he tested
negative so that was I I was quite happy
when I heard that but I have no message
for a mother than he's doing a good job
in Brazil a good job in Brazil he's very
popular I can't tell you about that I
don't know about that I have not heard
that he's doing a very good job Brazil
was very troubled before he got there
and he's the people loved him and
popular I think he's doing a very good
job there were Americans who were
travelling abroad or essentially stopped
unable to come home we spoke to a green
beret ten women who Americans to where
well we spoke to ten American women who
were in Morocco for instance all the
flights have been canceled their hotel
is shutting down they literally have no
place to stay and no way to get home
they are asking you they're asking the
administration the US government for
help what can be done we know about it
we have groups we have a group of young
people in in Peru and we're working on
taking care of that with the military
yeah we're looking to take no not
evacuation we we're trying to get them
out and you know they got caught they
were late with their flights we gave
them a period of time they didn't make
it but we're looking to get them out
with military probably through the
military we have a group of young young
people I think young men or young people
could be women also with them from
Alabama the great state of Alabama and
they're in Peru and we're working on
that right now trying to get them out
it's a large group it's about 300 well
we're gonna work it out Jeff the
president to sort of foreign policy
related questions and your talk with the
g7 leaders earlier this week did you
discuss together ending or postponing
the Olympics yeah we discuss it as you
know Prime Minister Abbey was on the
call and that's a big decision for him
and we don't know what his decision is
but we'd live with his decision it's a
tough situation they've done an
incredible job
Japan has done an incredible job when
building the venues getting them built
you know you've seen so many Olympic
venues that have been a disaster over
the years where they cost five times
more than they were supposed to they
weren't ready in time Japan has been
just the opposite they built it
beautifully they built it for what it
was supposed to be built for but then he
got hit with the same thing that the
rest of the world got hit with
unexpectedly he has he has told us that
he has not made a decision as to what to
do so on foreign policy have you spoken
to the leaders of Saudi Arabia or Russia
and encouraged them to stop this glut of
oil that is affecting the market well
the one thing I will tell you is that
from the standpoint you always get a
little bit torn because you know until
we became the leading producer I was
always for the person driving the car
and filling up the tank of gas and you'd
have gasoline and the prices were if
they were too high I would always raise
hell with OPEC and I was always somebody
that liked saying I never thought I'd
see 22 and 24 and 28 dollars a barrel
but that's what we have and in one way
our consumer is very much helped it's
like it's like a massive tax increase
that's bigger than any tax increase
decreased that you could give you know
we can give all these big tax cuts but
they're paying so little for gasoline
but on the other hand it hurts a great
industry and a very powerful industry so
I spoke with numerous people that have a
lot to
with it and we have a lot of power over
the situation and we're trying to find
some kind of a medium ground you know
it's it's very devastating to Russia
because when you look I mean the whole
economy is based on that and they have
we have the lowest oil prices in decades
so it's very devastating to Russia I
would say it's very bad for Saudi Arabia
but they were in a fight they were in a
fight on price they were in a fight on
output and at the at the appropriate
time I'll get involved you know the
Carnival cruise ships be used for well
Mickey called up and he said if you need
them and we haven't said yes I'll call
Governor Cuomo I'll I'll call Gavin from
gavin newsom
governor from california I'll call a few
of the other governors they're going to
bring it up today because we're meeting
through phone through telephone
telephonically as they say in a little
while at FEMA I'm going out of FEMA from
here well you could increase places to
stay let's say places to stay if it
works I mean you know I don't know maybe
people won't want him but he made the
offer it was a very generous offer and
he said that he has some ships that
would be ideally suited for what we're
doing and certainly they have a lot of
rooms they're big and they have a lot of
rooms so we appreciate it from Carnival
at what point in the future will any
American who wants to test be able to
get a test because you're talking about
not needing a test right now if you're
not showing any symptoms but a lot of
needing the test or only getting tested
if you're showing symptoms but a lot of
this well you should only get we should
I didn't have any symptoms that I got a
test but I got a test because you people
were driving everybody crazy so that's
the only reason I had no symptoms but I
had a test and my doctor told me don't
get it you don't need it everybody said
you don't need it but I had to do it
because the press was going crazy and
then after I got it they said you
shouldn't have gotten it you had no
symptoms you know the whole thing so in
other words if you get it it was no good
but that's I'm a unique case
unfortunately but no people that don't
show symptoms and people that have
doctors that say they shouldn't get it I
would rely on that no I don't think it's
racist I don't think it's racist
on that note major left-wing news media
even in this room have teamed up with
Chinese Communist Party narratives and
they're claiming you're racist for
making these charts is it alarming that
major media players just how close you
are consistently siding with foreign
state propaganda Islamic rather than
some Latin gangs and cartels and they
work right here at the White House with
direct access to you and your team it
amazes me when I read the things that I
read it amazes me when I read The Wall
Street Journal which is always so
negative
it amazes me when I read the New York
Times is not even I don't I barely read
it you know we don't distribute it in
the White House anymore in the same
thing with the Washington Post because
you see I know the truth and people out
there in the world they really don't
know that you're they don't know what it
is they use different slogans and
different concepts
for me almost every week trying to catch
something last week it was all chaos you
see me there's no K I said no chaos I'm
the one telling everybody to be calm
there's no chaos at the White House we
have unbelievable professionals it's
really I mean I think I came up with the
term I hope I came up with the term but
it is fakeness it's more than fakeness
it's corruptness they write stories
without calling anybody they write a
story today I had a couple of stories
where they never call me ever that I
know of at least nobody tells me they'll
write a story about me without even
asking my opinion on something it's
totally fake I've never seen I mean
there is a story in the Wall Street
Journal today about you know about how
we've done we've done a phenomenal job
on this the governor's Reeve is even
gavin newsom who you know I'm usually
fighting with over the fires and I think
you should do a different kind of a job
at the in the forests and lots of things
we've we argue a lot but Gavin Newsom
has been very very generous generous
Andrew Cuomo has been really very
generous I mean they're saying we're
doing a great job and everybody's saying
but then you'll read this faint phony
story in the Wall Street Journal or
where the Washington Post is going wild
lately I don't know what happened to
them I guess something happened like we
don't call them back or whatever but the
Washington Post these are very dishonest
media sources they're very dishonest and
you know what someday hopefully in five
years I won't be here and that'll be
fine I will have done I think a great
job because I don't think anyone has
done as much in three and a half years
as I've done I don't think and the
administration this administration has
done a great job but the press is very
dishonest well I think they do I mean I
mean they are siding with they are
siding with China they are doing things
that they shouldn't be doing this I do
with many others China is the least of
it
so why why they're doing this you'll
have to ask them but if we had an honest
media in this country our country would
be an even greater place so ladies and
gentlemen thank you very much
we are very excited about we are very
excited about in specifically what we
talked about with the chloroquine I
think the I think it could be something
really incredible it could totally
depress the times that we had mentioned
wait excuse me excuse me it could
totally depress any time that we're
talking about if it works there are a
lot of reasons that I have to believe
again dr. Han is the expert but a lot of
reasons that I would have to think that
it could have a very positive effect or
a positive effect maybe not very but
maybe maybe positive I think it's to me
very very exciting and the beauty is I
think I can say this Steve the beauty is
that these drugs have been out there so
they're really danger part of the drugs
especially chloroquine it's been out
there for years so we know it's
something that can be taken safely so
it's very important
go ahead president has asked us to
expedite this and what I want to assure
you because of the questions that were
asked we want to make sure that this is
done well and right for the American
people the president is right with an
off-the-shelf drug we do have a lot of
information about the side effects of
the drug so that really helps in terms
of expediting but but I want to show you
that we're working as quickly as we can
I don't want to speculate about a
timeline at this point with respect to
vaccines that's in phase one trial as I
mentioned we're expecting that to
proceed moving forward and we're working
with a number of different other
companies about vaccine development
one was fast-tracked is it possible
phase 2 and phase 3 can be fast-tracked
that we might see a vaccine before that
you you said it could potentially be
this is a terrific question and we are
really trying hard at FDA to partner
with great industry great academic
partners to do exactly that
no promises can be made but one thing
that we're doing is really working hard
to fast-track as much pasta meat will be
meeting hopefully not for very long I
mean it would like to see this get
cleared up and we think we've to me this
was a very important conference because
I really think there's great potential
here and a lot of people are going to be
trying it soon like literally very soon
literally in a matter of days if not
sooner in some cases it's already being
experimented with and there's been some
very good results we'll see what happens
but if if we can be even partially right
maybe we'll be fully right but even
partially right on it this whole subject
becomes a much more pleasant subject so
thank you all and we'll we're going over
to FEMA now so I don't know who's going
but we're going to FEMA we're going to
be discussing with the governors and
lots of other
now what I think that's enough